Permissions guide (#7497)
Rapptz/discord.py: docs/guide/topics/permissions.rst

.. currentmodule:: discord

.. _guide_topic_permissions:

Permissions
============

> Permissions are the bread and butter of how control over a discord server (which henceforth be referenced as "guild" for the sake of API terminology).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Permissions are the bread and butter of how control over a Discord server (which will from now on be referenced as a "guild" to align with Discord's official API terminology).
```

Controlling permissions is necessary for securing and controlling how your guild functions and operates.

Permission hierarchy explanation
---------------------------------

Discord permissions work on a hierarchy system. This means that roles placed logically above each other (in the Roles UI) have descending order of precedence.

If you have a role list, like so:

- ``Administrator (#1)``
- ``Manager (#2)``
- ``Moderator (#3)``
- ``@everyone (#4)``

This means that Administrator role (someone who has it) can kick, ban and timeout Manager.
Manager **cannot** kick, ban or timeout Administrator.

discord.py is aware of this and has implemented the :meth:`~Role.__gt__` and similar methods on :class:`~Role` that allows you to perform the following:

.. code-block:: python3

    if administrator_role > manager_role:
        # The administrator role is greater in the hierarchy than manager.

One small caveat to note with the discord permissions system, is that in the case of overwrites, explicit allow will always overwrite explicit deny.

> What I mean by this, is the following:

Reviewer: Generally speaking I think by standard we want to always either address by mass or avoid self-referencing entirely.
```suggestion
What we mean by this, is the following:
```
```suggestion
What is meant by this, is the following:
```
```suggestion
In clearer terms, imagine this:
```

Take a scenario where you have a text channel, that gives the ``@everyone`` role the ``send_messages`` overwrite set to ``True`` (or a green check-mark in the UI).
If you then have a Muted role, that is supposed to disallow members from sending messages, but that role has the ``send_messages`` overwrite set to ``False`` (or a red cross in the UI)

> then members with that Muted role **can** still send  messages within this channel.

Reviewer: I think some kind of graphic to represent this here would be good, since this is doubtless a very common scenario.

The solution to this issue is to set the ``@everyone`` role overwrites for ``send_messages`` to ``None`` (or a grey strike in the UI).
This allows for permissions to be cascaded to it.

.. image:: /images/guide/topics/permissions/green_check.png
    :scale: 80%

.. image:: /images/guide/topics/permissions/red_cross.png
    :scale: 80%

.. image:: /images/guide/topics/permissions/grey_strike.png
    :scale: 80%

Using permissions within discord.py
------------------------------------

discord.py has two primary ways of interaction with the permissions of a guild or channels:

- :class:`~Permissions` for interacting with general permissions for roles and channels.
- :class:`~PermissionOverwrite` for interacting with the overwrites on a guild channel.

Let's use both of these now in actual examples.

Permission values
------------------

> A small preface to this, is that discord themselves represent the permissions system as a bit field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A small preface to this, is that Discord themselves represent the permissions system as a bit field.
```

They have a great in-depth `explanation to this <https://discord.com/developers/docs/topics/permissions>`_ on their API documentation page.

If you desire to use permission integers within discord.py, you can do it similar to the below:

.. code-block:: python3

    # If you wanted to create a new admin role, that has the `Administrator` permission, you can do it like so:
    permissions = discord.Permissions(administrator=True)

    # However, the underlying value for this permission (or `bit` as the API docs explain it) can be viewed by:
    permissions.value
    >>> 8

    # You can also instantiate a Permissions class with an integer that represents the bit(s) you want to provide, like so:
    permissions = discord.Permissions(268435634)
    # This Permissions instance has the `view_audit_log`, `manage_server`, `manage_roles`, `manage_channels` and `kick_members` permissions.

Using Permissions to create a new role
---------------------------------------

> So we want to make a role for a new game in our guild, that we can add to users to ping them for news and such. Let's do that now:

Reviewer: Our examples should try to avoid being vague wherever possible.
```suggestion
Let's imagine we have a server where we talk about the latest games.

We want to make it so that when a new game comes out, we create a role that people can get to receive the latest news about that game.

Let's start out with making the role:
```

.. code-block:: python3

    async def create_new_role(name: str, mentionable: bool, guild: discord.Guild) -> discord.Role:
        await guild.create_role(name=name, mentionable=mentionable, reason="New game!")

This rather short example just creates a new role within the :class:`~Guild` passed to this method.

> Let's flesh it out more, and use the :meth:`~Guild.create_role` method to it's full capability with a set of :class:`Permissions`.

Reviewer: Possessive "its" has no apostrophe.
```suggestion
Let's flesh it out more, and use the :meth:`~Guild.create_role` method to its full capability with a set of :class:`Permissions`.
```

.. code-block:: python3

>     # So we want a new role, but let's give it permissions to do some things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # So we want to create a new role, and to give that role some permissions.
```

    # We will define a set of `Permissions` that do what we need:
    permissions = discord.Permissions()
    permissions.send_messages = True
    permissions.add_reactions = True
    permissions.create_public_threads = True

    # Above is now a working Permissions instance with the name `permissions`, we could also define it like so:
    permissions = discord.Permissions(send_messages=True, add_reactions=True, create_public_threads=True)

    # and we pass this to the role creation method!
    await guild.create_role(name="My cool game", mentionable=True, permissions=permissions, reason="New game!")

> Now we have a brand new role, named ``"My cool game"`` and it now have the permissions we outlined above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we have a brand new role, named ``"My cool game"`` and it now also has the permissions we outlined above.
```

Setting permissions on an existing channel
-------------------------------------------

Let's say you wanted to edit the permissions of an existing channel, perhaps to give a role more access.
An example here is that my new moderator role needs the Manage Messages permission in the #general channel.
We will be using the :meth:`~TextChannel.set_permissions` method:

.. code-block:: python3

    # Let's create a PermissionOverwrite instance that has some explicit permissions set:
    overwrites = discord.PermissionOverwrite()
    overwrites.update(send_messages=True, send_messages_in_threads=True)

    # and now we update that with `manage_messages`:
    overwrites.manage_messages = True

    # we can now set those permissions on the channel:

>     await channel.set_permissions(moderator_role, overwrites=overwrites)

Reviewer: [TextChannel.set_permissions](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/master/api.html#discord.TextChannel.set_permissions) takes `overwrite`, not `overwrites`
```suggestion
    await channel.set_permissions(moderator_role, overwrite=overwrites)
```
The name of the var itself should probably also be adjusted.

This short example briefly goes over PermissionOverwrite objects, let's look more into those now:

Using ``PermissionOverwrite`` objects during channel creation
--------------------------------------------------------------

We can also create channels with permissions set from the start.

> Let's create a text channel where only the moderator role, and someone trying to make a report can see the channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create a text channel where only the moderator role, and someone trying to make a report, can see the channel.
```

We need to construct a mapping of ``Role | Member: PermissionOverwrite``:

.. code-block:: python3

    # We can now create the overwrites mapping necessary for this, you can do it in one dictionary instantiation, or spead it across multiple lines.

>     # I have added type annotations here so that the reader can understand what is happeining, and so type-checkers do too:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # I have added type annotations here so that both the reader and type-checkers can understand what is happening:
```
Also, this might conversely have the inverse effect of being too complicated for new readers. Might be a good idea to reconsider heavily typing examples.

        moderator_role: discord.PermissionOverwrite(manage_messages=True),
        member: discord.PermissionOverwrite(view_channel=True, send_messages=True, read_messages=True, read_message_history=True)
    }

    # or alternatively:
    overwrites: Dict[Union[discord.Role, discord.Member], discord.PermissionOverwrite] = {}
    overwrites[guild.default_role] = discord.PermissionOverwrite(view_channel=False, send_messages=False, read_messages=False, read_message_history=False)
    overwrites[moderator_role] = discord.PermissionOverwrite(manage_messages=True)
    overwrites[member] = discord.PermissionOverwrite(view_channel=True, send_messages=True, read_messages=True, read_message_history=True)

    # We can now pass these to channel creation:

    await guild.create_text_channel(name="Ticket", overwrites=overwrites)

The channel created whose permissions look something like this:

.. image:: /images/guide/topics/permissions/ticket_channel.png

Using ``PermissionOverwrite`` objects for finer control over channels
----------------------------------------------------------------------

> :class:`~PermissionOverwrite` makes granting finer access to channels easier to manipulate.

Reviewer: It feels a touch difficult to understand what this sentence means without stopping to think about it, so maybe:
```suggestion
:class:`~PermissionOverwrite` makes controlling access to channels a much easier task.
```
would be easier to follow.

> Let's create a scenario where you want to "lockdown" a channel, denying the ``@everyone`` role the permission to send messages.

Reviewer: Rhythm of this sentence feels better when this is two separate words.
```suggestion
Let's create a scenario where you want to "lock down" a channel, denying the ``@everyone`` role the permission to send messages.
```

.. code-block:: python3

>     # I have found that the easiest way to do this, is to get the current overwrites for the Role or Member we're editing:

Reviewer: Is it the easiest way? This is kind of a rhetorical question, but I feel like we should be confident about what we're putting into a guide. After all, the reader is trusting that the information we've taken time to accumulate is our best-in-class "seal of approval" technique.

We can deliberate as much as we want while writing it, and leave only the information we know is tried and true in the document. There's no reason to clue the reader in on this process, the work should already be done.

Author: Valid point, for now I have made this
```
# One of the easiest ways to do this, ...
```

I will however leave this conversation open and ask for further feedback from other docs contributors.

    overwrite = channel.overwrites_for(guild.default_role)
    # We now have the PermissionOverwrite instance for the `@everyone` role, in the channel.

    # All we do now, is update it. There are two ways to do this:
    overwrite.send_messages = False
    # or, if you have bulk permissions to update:
    overwrite.update(send_messages=False)

    # Since we have a singular PermissionOverwrite, we want to use the `set_permissions` method of the channel:
    await channel.set_permissions(guild.default_role, overwrite=overwrite)

Now, that channel has explicitly denied the ``send_messages`` permission to the defalt role of the guild.

> In an alternate scenario, we want to add multiple overwrites to a channel at the same time, to deny ``add_reactions`` permissions to roles and members:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an alternate scenario, let's say we want to add multiple overwrites to a channel at the same time, to deny ``add_reactions`` permissions to roles and members:
```

.. code-block:: python3

    # Let's take a working copy of the overwrites in that channel

>     overwrites = channel.overwrites.copy()

Reviewer: Is it necessary to do this? I've always seen copy as a user-facing thing for duplicating their own instances, so if it's necessary to do it here for some lib specific reason, we should probably explain why.

    # we'll now grab the specific overwrites relating to that role and member:
    role_overwrite = channel.overwrites_for(role)
    member_overwrite = channel.overwrites_for(member)

    # edit the attribute for each specific permission
    role_overwrite.add_reactions = False
    member_overwrite.add_reactions = False
    # alternatively, if you have a bulk of permissions to update, you can use the `.update` method of them:
    role_overwrite.update(add_reaction=False)
    member_overwrite.update(add_reaction=False)

    # We now place these overwrites into the existing and working copy of the overwrites we took:
    overwrites[role] = role_overwrite
    overwrites[member] = member_overwrite

    # and edit the channel with them:

>     await channel.edit(overwrites=overwrites)

Reviewer: I discussed this on other guide reviews, but I think it is always best practice to end a guide with prose as opposed to a codeblock/warning/other directive, because it makes the document feel better rounded off.

Author: I do agree, but I am not sure what to add here personally. Similar to the other remaining conversation I will await feedback from other contributors.

.. currentmodule:: discord

.. _guide_topic_permissions:

Permissions
============

Permissions are the bread and butter of how control over a Discord server (which will from now on be referenced as a "guild" to align with Discord's official API terminology).

> Controlling permissions is necessary for securing and controlling how your guild functions and operates.

Reviewer 2: Potential rewording here.

```suggestion
Controlling permissions is necessary for securing your guild and controlling how it functions and operates.
```

Permission hierarchy explanation
---------------------------------

Discord permissions work on a hierarchy system. This means that roles placed logically above each other (in the Roles UI) have descending order of precedence.

> If you have a role list, like so:
> 
> - ``Administrator (#1)``
> - ``Manager (#2)``
> - ``Moderator (#3)``
> - ``@everyone (#4)``
> 
> This means that Administrator role (someone who has it) can kick, ban and timeout Manager.
> Manager **cannot** kick, ban or timeout Administrator.

Reviewer 2: Minor nit-pick here but L19 and L26 don't seem to flow very well. Also unsure about the wording on L26. 

```suggestion
Say you have a role list, like so:

- ``Administrator (#1)``
- ``Manager (#2)``
- ``Moderator (#3)``
- ``@everyone (#4)``

Here, someone with the Administrator role can kick, ban and timeout Manager.
Manager **cannot** kick, ban or timeout Administrator.
```

discord.py is aware of this and has implemented the ``__gt__`` and other methods on :class:`Role`, which allows you to do the following:

.. code-block:: python3

    if administrator_role > manager_role:
        # The administrator role is greater in the hierarchy than manager.

> One small caveat to note with the discord permissions system, is that in the case of overwrites, explicit allow will always overwrite explicit deny.

Reviewer 3: This isn't entirely accurate because a member overwrite deny takes precedence over a role overwrite allow. Maybe also list the whole overwrites hierarchy while we're at it and not just allow > deny

```suggestion
One small caveat to note with the discord permissions system, is that in the case of overwrites, the highest overwrite in the hierarchy will be applied. The hierarchy is as follows:

1. Member allow
2. Member deny
3. Role allow
4. Role deny
5. @everyone allow
6. @everyone deny
```

Reviewer 2: I take no credit for this suggestion, other than moving the comma to correct the appositive clause.

```suggestion
One small caveat to note with the discord permissions system is that, in the case of overwrites, the highest overwrite in the hierarchy will be applied. The hierarchy is as follows:
1. Member allow
2. Member deny
3. Role allow
4. Role deny
5. @everyone allow
6. @everyone deny
```

In clearer terms, imagine this:

> Take a scenario where you have a text channel, that gives the ``@Chatters`` role the ``send_messages`` overwrite set to ``True`` (or a green check-mark in the UI).
> If you then have a ``@Muted`` role, that is supposed to disallow members from sending messages, but that role has the ``send_messages`` overwrite set to ``False`` (or a red cross in the UI)
> then members with that muted role **can** still send  messages within this channel.

Reviewer 2: Rearrangement of commas + removal of double spacing here

```suggestion
Take a scenario where you have a text channel that gives the ``@Chatters`` role the ``send_messages`` overwrite set to ``True`` (or a green check-mark in the UI).
If you then have a ``@Muted`` role that is supposed to disallow members from sending messages, but that role has the ``send_messages`` overwrite set to ``False`` (or a red cross in the UI),
then members with that muted role **can** still send messages within this channel.
```

A small example to show this:

.. image:: /images/guide/topics/permissions/hierarchy_explanation.png

The solution to this issue is to set the ``@everyone`` role overwrites for ``send_messages`` to ``None`` (or a grey strike in the UI).
This allows for permissions to be cascaded to it.

.. image:: /images/guide/topics/permissions/green_check.png
    :scale: 80%

.. image:: /images/guide/topics/permissions/red_cross.png
    :scale: 80%

.. image:: /images/guide/topics/permissions/grey_strike.png
    :scale: 80%

Using permissions within discord.py
------------------------------------

> discord.py has two primary ways of interaction with the permissions of a guild or channels:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
discord.py has two primary ways of interacting with the permissions of a guild or channels:
```

- :class:`~Permissions` for interacting with general permissions for roles and channels.
- :class:`~PermissionOverwrite` for interacting with the overwrites on a guild channel.

Let's use both of these now in actual examples.

Permission values
------------------

> A small preface to this, is that Discord themselves represent the permissions system as a bit field.

Reviewer 2: Minor rewording

```suggestion
A small preface to this is that Discord represents the permissions system as a bit field.
```

    permissions = discord.Permissions(administrator=True)

    # However, the underlying value for this permission (or `bit` as the API docs explain it) can be viewed by:
    permissions.value
    >>> 8

    # You can also instantiate a Permissions class with an integer that represents the bit(s) you want to provide, like so:
    permissions = discord.Permissions(268435634)
    # This Permissions instance has the `view_audit_log`, `manage_server`, `manage_roles`, `manage_channels` and `kick_members` permissions.

Using Permissions to create a new role
---------------------------------------

Let's imagine we have a server where we talk about the latest games.

.. code-block:: python3

    async def create_new_role(name: str, mentionable: bool, guild: discord.Guild) -> discord.Role:
        await guild.create_role(name=name, mentionable=mentionable, reason="New game!")

This rather short example just creates a new role within the :class:`~Guild` passed to this method.

Let's flesh it out more, and use the :meth:`~Guild.create_role` method to its full capability with a set of :class:`Permissions`.

.. code-block:: python3

>     # So we want to create a new role, and to give that role some permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # So we want to create a new role, and give that role some permissions.
```

    # We will define a set of `Permissions` that do what we need:
    permissions = discord.Permissions()
    permissions.send_messages = True
    permissions.add_reactions = True
    permissions.create_public_threads = True

>     # Above is now a working Permissions instance with the name `permissions`, we could also define it like so:

Reviewer 2: I'd suggesting starting a new sentence here like so:

```suggestion
    # Above is now a working Permissions instance with the name `permissions`. We could also define it like so:
```

    permissions = discord.Permissions(send_messages=True, add_reactions=True, create_public_threads=True)

>     # and we pass this to the role creation method!

Reviewer 2: Capitalisation and removal of 'and' to improve flow

```suggestion
    # We can now pass this to the role creation method!
```

    await guild.create_role(name="My cool game", mentionable=True, permissions=permissions, reason="New game!")

Now we have a brand new role, named ``"My cool game"`` and it now also has the permissions we outlined above.

Setting permissions on an existing channel
-------------------------------------------

Let's say you wanted to edit the permissions of an existing channel, perhaps to give a role more access.
An example here is that my new moderator role needs the Manage Messages permission in the #general channel.
We will be using the :meth:`~TextChannel.set_permissions` method:

.. code-block:: python3

    # Let's create a PermissionOverwrite instance that has some explicit permissions set:
    overwrite = discord.PermissionOverwrite()
    overwrite.update(send_messages=True, send_messages_in_threads=True)

>     # and now we update that with `manage_messages`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # And now we update that with `manage_messages`:
```

    overwrite.manage_messages = True

>     # we can now set those permissions on the channel:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # We can now set those permissions on the channel:
```

    await channel.set_permissions(moderator_role, overwrite=overwrite)

> 

Reviewer 3: Maybe also worth noting that doing this will (re)set all other overwrite permissions to None/default?
Since this example mentions
> perhaps to give a role more access.

I think some beginners might try to use this example to modify an existing overwrite and inadvertently remove their settings for all other permissions.

 `channel.overwrites_for()` is shown at the end of the guide to modify existing overwrites, so maybe just mention it exists here? 

 ```suggestion
Note that doing this will reset all other overwrite permissions to ``None`` (or a grey strike in the UI). Use :meth:`~abc.GuildChannel.overwrites_for` to get the existing overwrite to modify if you want to preserve the state of the other permissions.
```
(Feel free to rewrite this too if you don't like how I worded it.)

This short example briefly goes over PermissionOverwrite objects, let's look more into those now:

Using ``PermissionOverwrite`` objects during channel creation
--------------------------------------------------------------

We can also create channels with permissions set from the start.
Let's create a text channel where only the moderator role, and someone trying to make a report, can see the channel.

We need to construct a mapping of ``Role | Member: PermissionOverwrite``:

.. code-block:: python3

>     # We can now create the overwrites mapping necessary for this, you can do it in one dictionary instantiation, or spead it across multiple lines.

Reviewer 2: Fixed typo

```suggestion
    # We can now create the overwrites mapping necessary for this, you can do it in one dictionary instantiation, or spread it across multiple lines.
```

    overwrites = {
        guild.default_role: discord.PermissionOverwrite(view_channel=False, send_messages=False, read_messages=False, read_message_history=False),
        moderator_role: discord.PermissionOverwrite(manage_messages=True),
        member: discord.PermissionOverwrite(view_channel=True, send_messages=True, read_messages=True, read_message_history=True)
    }

>     # or alternatively:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Or, alternatively:
```

    overwrites = {}
    overwrites[guild.default_role] = discord.PermissionOverwrite(view_channel=False, send_messages=False, read_messages=False, read_message_history=False)

>     overwrites[moderator_role] = discord.PermissionOverwrite(manage_messages=True)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    overwrites[moderator_role] = discord.PermissionOverwrite(view_channel=True, send_messages=True, read_messages=True, read_message_history=True, manage_messages=True)
```
nit-picky here but moderator needs to be able to view channel and send/read messages

    overwrites[member] = discord.PermissionOverwrite(view_channel=True, send_messages=True, read_messages=True, read_message_history=True)

    # We can now pass these to channel creation:

    await guild.create_text_channel(name="Ticket", overwrites=overwrites)

> The channel created whose permissions look something like this:

Reviewer 2: Rewording

```suggestion
The permissions of the channel we just created look like this:
```

.. image:: /images/guide/topics/permissions/ticket_channel.png

Using ``PermissionOverwrite`` objects for finer control over channels
----------------------------------------------------------------------

:class:`~PermissionOverwrite` makes controlling access to channels a much easier task.
Let's create a scenario where you want to "lock down" a channel, denying the ``@everyone`` role the permission to send messages.

.. code-block:: python3

    # One of the easiest ways to do this, is to get the current overwrites for the Role or Member we're editing:
    overwrite = channel.overwrites_for(guild.default_role)
    # We now have the PermissionOverwrite instance for the `@everyone` role, in the channel.

    # All we do now, is update it. There are two ways to do this:
    overwrite.send_messages = False

>     # or, if you have bulk permissions to update:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Or, if you have bulk permissions to update:
```

    overwrite.update(send_messages=False)

    # Since we have a singular PermissionOverwrite, we want to use the `set_permissions` method of the channel:
    await channel.set_permissions(guild.default_role, overwrite=overwrite)

> Now, that channel has explicitly denied the ``send_messages`` permission to the defalt role of the guild.

Reviewer 2: Fixed typo

```suggestion
Now, that channel has explicitly denied the ``send_messages`` permission to the deufalt role of the guild.
```

> In an alternate scenario, let's say we want to add multiple overwrites to a channel at the same time, to deny ``add_reactions`` permissions to roles and members:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In an alternate scenario, let's say we want to add multiple overwrites to a channel at the same time to deny ``add_reactions`` permissions to roles and members:
```

.. code-block:: python3

    # Let's create a PermissionOverwrite instance that has some explicit permissions set:
    overwrite = discord.PermissionOverwrite()
    overwrite.update(send_messages=True, send_messages_in_threads=True)

    # and now we update that with `manage_messages`:
    overwrite.manage_messages = True

    # we can now set those permissions on the channel:

>     await channel.set_permissions(moderator_role, overwrite=overwrites)

Reviewer 4: Typo (remove the "s": `overwrite=overwrite`)
